README.md, before:

Accismus
========

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/keith-turner/Accismus.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/keith-turner/Accismus)

A [Percolator][2] prototype  for [Accumulo][1].  This prototype relies on 
Accumulo 1.6.0 which has [ACCUMULO-1000][3] and [ACCUMULO-112][5].
[ACCUMULO-1000][3] makes cross row transactions possible and  [ACCUMULO-112][5]
makes it possible to effeciently find notifications.  Theoretically this
prototype is to a point where it could run in a distributed manner.  But this
has not been tested.  The pieces are in place, CAS is done on the tablet server
and the Oracle is a service.  

There is a lot that needs to be done.  If you are interested in contributing
send me an email or check out the issues.

If you want to experiment with Accimus, check out the [phrasecount][7] example.
This example is a simple end-to-end application that is super easy to run.  It
also has handling for real world problems like high cardinality phrases.

Building Accismus
-----------------

Using Maven, you can build Accismus with the following steps.

```
git clone https://github.com/keith-turner/Accismus.git
cd Accismus
mvn package
```

Running `mvn package` will build a tar ball that contains all of the
dependencies needed at runtime.  Currently the tar ball is targeted towards
Hadoop 2.3.0 and Accumulo 1.6.0.  If you have different versions installed on
your cluster, you can try passing the following options to maven package.
Other versions of Hadoop and Accumulo may not work, please open a bug if you
run into problems.

```
mvn package -Daccumulo.version=1.6.1-SNAPSHOT -Dhadoop.version=2.4.0
```

Once the tarball is built, deploy it using the command below which can be modified
to a directory of your choice (rather than `/opt`).

```
tar -C /opt -xvzf modules/distribution/target/accismus-1.0.0-alpha-1-SNAPSHOT-bin.tar.gz
```

Configuring Accismus
--------------------

To configure and run Accismus, you will need a running Accumulo instance as well 
as an observer jar to run with Accismus.  If you have not created your own observer
jar, you can build an observer jar using the [phrasecount][7] example.

First, copy the example configuration files and modify them for you environment.

```
cd accismus-1.0.0-alpha-1-SNAPSHOT/conf
cp examples/* .
vim accismus-env.sh
vim initialization.properties
vim connection.properties
```

Copy your observer jar to Accismus and set up notifications to your observer in
 `initialization.properties`.  Check out [phrasecount][7] to build an example
observer jar and find instructions for configuring `initialization.properties`.

```
OBSERVER_JAR=<location of observer jar>
cd accismus-1.0.0-alpha-1-SNAPSHOT/
cp $OBSERVER_JAR lib/observers
vim conf/initialization.properties
```

Finally, initialize your instance which only needs to be called once and stores
 configuration in zookeeper.

```
./bin/initialize.sh
```

Running Accismus
----------------

An Accismus instance consists of 1 oracle process and multiple worker processes.
These processes can either be run on a YARN cluster or started locally on each
machine.

The preferred method to run Accismus applications is using YARN which will start
up multiple workers as configured in `connection.properties`.  To start an Accismus
cluster in YARN, run following commands:

```
./bin/oracle.sh start-yarn
./bin/worker.sh start-yarn
```

The `start-yarn` commands above submit your Accimus applications to YARN.  
Therefore, they work for a single-node or a large cluster.  By using YARN, you 
no longer need to deploy the Accismus binaries to every node on your cluster or 
start processes on every node.

You can use `yarn application -list` to check the status of the applications. 
Logs are viewable within YARN.  When finished, you can kill the applications
using `yarn application -kill <Application ID>`.  The application ID can be
found using the list command.

If you do not have YARN set up, you can start a local Accismus process using
the following commands:

```
./bin/oracle.sh start-local
./bin/worker.sh start-local
```

In a distributed enivornment, you will need to deploy the Accismus binary to 
every node and start each process individually.

To stop Accismus processes, run the following commands:

```
./bin/worker.sh stop-local
./bin/oracle.sh stop-local
```

Tuning Accumulo
---------------

Accismus will reread the same data frequenty when it checks conditions on
mutations.   When Accismus initializes a table it enables data caching to make
this more efficient.  However you may need to increase the amount of memory
available for caching in the tserver by increasing `tserver.cache.data.size`.
Increasing this may require increasing the maximum tserver java heap size in
`accumulo-env.sh`.  

Accismus will run many client threads, will want to ensure the tablet server
has enough threads.  Should probably increase the
`tserver.server.threads.minimum` Accumulo setting.

Group commit in Accumulo 1.6.0 is broken, the patch on [ACCUMULO-2766][8] can
be applied to fix this.  


[1]: http://accumulo.apache.org
[2]: http://research.google.com/pubs/pub36726.html
[3]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-1000
[5]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-112
[7]: https://github.com/keith-turner/phrasecount
[8]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-2766

Commit message:

ACCISMUS #36 Renaming Accismus to Fluo

README.md, after:

Fluo
========

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/keith-turner/Fluo.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/keith-turner/Fluo)

A [Percolator][2] prototype  for [Accumulo][1].  This prototype relies on 
Accumulo 1.6.0 which has [ACCUMULO-1000][3] and [ACCUMULO-112][5].
[ACCUMULO-1000][3] makes cross row transactions possible and  [ACCUMULO-112][5]
makes it possible to effeciently find notifications.  Theoretically this
prototype is to a point where it could run in a distributed manner.  But this
has not been tested.  The pieces are in place, CAS is done on the tablet server
and the Oracle is a service.  

There is a lot that needs to be done.  If you are interested in contributing
send me an email or check out the issues.

If you want to experiment with Accimus, check out the [phrasecount][7] example.
This example is a simple end-to-end application that is super easy to run.  It
also has handling for real world problems like high cardinality phrases.

Building Fluo
-----------------

Using Maven, you can build Fluo with the following steps.

```
git clone https://github.com/keith-turner/Fluo.git
cd Fluo
mvn package
```

Running `mvn package` will build a tar ball that contains all of the
dependencies needed at runtime.  Currently the tar ball is targeted towards
Hadoop 2.3.0 and Accumulo 1.6.0.  If you have different versions installed on
your cluster, you can try passing the following options to maven package.
Other versions of Hadoop and Accumulo may not work, please open a bug if you
run into problems.

```
mvn package -Daccumulo.version=1.6.1-SNAPSHOT -Dhadoop.version=2.4.0
```

Once the tarball is built, deploy it using the command below which can be modified
to a directory of your choice (rather than `/opt`).

```
tar -C /opt -xvzf modules/distribution/target/fluo-1.0.0-alpha-1-SNAPSHOT-bin.tar.gz
```

Configuring Fluo
--------------------

To configure and run Fluo, you will need a running Accumulo instance as well
as an observer jar to run with Fluo.  If you have not created your own observer
jar, you can build an observer jar using the [phrasecount][7] example.

First, copy the example configuration files and modify them for you environment.

```
cd fluo-1.0.0-alpha-1-SNAPSHOT/conf
cp examples/* .
vim fluo-env.sh
vim initialization.properties
vim fluo.properties
```

Copy your observer jar to Fluo and set up notifications to your observer in
 `initialization.properties`.  Check out [phrasecount][7] to build an example
observer jar and find instructions for configuring `initialization.properties`.

```
OBSERVER_JAR=<location of observer jar>
cd fluo-1.0.0-alpha-1-SNAPSHOT/
cp $OBSERVER_JAR lib/observers
vim conf/initialization.properties
```

Finally, initialize your instance which only needs to be called once and stores
 configuration in zookeeper.

```
./bin/initialize.sh
```

Running Fluo
----------------

An Fluo instance consists of 1 oracle process and multiple worker processes.
These processes can either be run on a YARN cluster or started locally on each
machine.

The preferred method to run Fluo applications is using YARN which will start
up multiple workers as configured in `connection.properties`.  To start a Fluo
cluster in YARN, run following commands:

```
./bin/oracle.sh start-yarn
./bin/worker.sh start-yarn
```

The `start-yarn` commands above submit your Accimus applications to YARN.  
Therefore, they work for a single-node or a large cluster.  By using YARN, you 
no longer need to deploy the Fluo binaries to every node on your cluster or
start processes on every node.

You can use `yarn application -list` to check the status of the applications. 
Logs are viewable within YARN.  When finished, you can kill the applications
using `yarn application -kill <Application ID>`.  The application ID can be
found using the list command.

If you do not have YARN set up, you can start a local Fluo process using
the following commands:

```
./bin/oracle.sh start-local
./bin/worker.sh start-local
```

In a distributed enivornment, you will need to deploy the Fluo binary to
every node and start each process individually.

To stop Fluo processes, run the following commands:

```
./bin/worker.sh stop-local
./bin/oracle.sh stop-local
```

Tuning Accumulo
---------------

Fluo will reread the same data frequenty when it checks conditions on
mutations.   When Fluo initializes a table it enables data caching to make
this more efficient.  However you may need to increase the amount of memory
available for caching in the tserver by increasing `tserver.cache.data.size`.
Increasing this may require increasing the maximum tserver java heap size in
`accumulo-env.sh`.  

Fluo will run many client threads, will want to ensure the tablet server
has enough threads.  Should probably increase the
`tserver.server.threads.minimum` Accumulo setting.

Group commit in Accumulo 1.6.0 is broken, the patch on [ACCUMULO-2766][8] can
be applied to fix this.  


[1]: http://accumulo.apache.org
[2]: http://research.google.com/pubs/pub36726.html
[3]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-1000
[5]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-112
[7]: https://github.com/keith-turner/phrasecount
[8]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-2766
